src/content/docs/guides/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to Veloxi
description: Introduction to Veloxi
---

import PluginCode from '@components/PluginCode.vue'
import FollowMouse from '@examples/FollowMouse.astro'
import FollowMouseFunctional from '@code/introduction/FollowMouseFunctional.mdx'
import FollowMouseClassical from '@code/introduction/FollowMouseClassical.mdx'

Veloxi is a UI engine for creating smooth interactions in the browser. It's called an engine because:

- It abstracts away the low-level details of how the browser reads and updates the DOM.
- It works directly with the DOM, so it's framework-agnostic.
- It is **not** opinionated on how you use it to implement interactions.

## Main Components

A Veloxi app consists of three main parts: the app runner, plugins, and views.

On each page, you will have a single **app** object running all the interactions on that page. Each interaction code will be written in a **plugin**, and a plugin will have access to the **views** assigned to it.

So the relationship between these components is one-to-many: one app can contain multiple plugins, and one plugin can contain multiple views. This leads us to an important note: **each view can be owned only by a single plugin**.

This design decision is critical to ensure that there are no conflicts between plugins when manipulating views.

## Does It Work on Server-Side Rendered Applications (SSR)?

Yes, but you should create and run your Veloxi app instance only after your DOM is created and loaded.

For example, if you are using SvelteKit, you need to wrap your app instance in `onMount()`.

```js
onMount(() => {
  const app = createApp()
  app.addPlugin(MyPlugin)
  app.run()
})
```

The same applies to other frameworks.

## Your First Plugin

This example will provide a brief overview of how to use Veloxi. In this example, we will build a 'follow-the-mouse' interaction.

<FollowMouse />

This example has a single element for the circle.

```html
<div
  class="circle"
  data-vel-view="circle"
  data-vel-plugin="FollowMousePlugin"
></div>
```

This element will be accessed as a view within our plugin. The view's name is defined using the `data-vel-view` attribute, which will be `circle`. This view will be assigned to our plugin, which we'll call `FollowMousePlugin`; we'll use the `data-vel-plugin` data attribute for this purpose.

To make the element look like a circle, we need to add this CSS:

```css
.circle {
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  background: whitesmoke;
  border-radius: 50%;
  will-change: transform;
}
```

Now, we come to our plugin definition.

<PluginCode client:load>
  <div slot="FunctionalStyle">
    <FollowMouseFunctional />
  </div>
  <div slot="ClassicalStyle">
    <FollowMouseClassical />
  </div>
</PluginCode>

Though this example may seem simple, it contains important parts we should look at one by one.

In the upcoming sections of this guide, we'll cover:

- How to work with single and multiple views.
- Applying a plugin to a specific view (using scoped plugins).
- Changing view properties like position, size, and rotation.
- Adding animations to view properties.
- Sending data to plugins.
- Understanding global events vs. plugin events.
- Using EventPlugins.

Commit message:

add showcase link to introduction

src/content/docs/guides/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to Veloxi
description: Introduction to Veloxi
---

import PluginCode from '@components/PluginCode.vue'
import FollowMouse from '@examples/FollowMouse.astro'
import FollowMouseFunctional from '@code/introduction/FollowMouseFunctional.mdx'
import FollowMouseClassical from '@code/introduction/FollowMouseClassical.mdx'

Veloxi is a UI engine for creating smooth interactions in the browser. It's called an engine because:

- It abstracts away the low-level details of how the browser reads and updates the DOM.
- It works directly with the DOM, so it's framework-agnostic.
- It is **not** opinionated on how you use it to implement interactions.

🌟 [Check out the showcase to see what you can build with it.](/examples/showcase/)

## Main Components

A Veloxi app consists of three main parts: the app runner, plugins, and views.

On each page, you will have a single **app** object running all the interactions on that page. Each interaction code will be written in a **plugin**, and a plugin will have access to the **views** assigned to it.

So the relationship between these components is one-to-many: one app can contain multiple plugins, and one plugin can contain multiple views. This leads us to an important note: **each view can be owned only by a single plugin**.

This design decision is critical to ensure that there are no conflicts between plugins when manipulating views.

## Does It Work on Server-Side Rendered Applications (SSR)?

Yes, but you should create and run your Veloxi app instance only after your DOM is created and loaded.

For example, if you are using SvelteKit, you need to wrap your app instance in `onMount()`.

```js
onMount(() => {
  const app = createApp()
  app.addPlugin(MyPlugin)
  app.run()
})
```

The same applies to other frameworks.

## Your First Plugin

This example will provide a brief overview of how to use Veloxi. In this example, we will build a 'follow-the-mouse' interaction.

<FollowMouse />

This example has a single element for the circle.

```html
<div
  class="circle"
  data-vel-view="circle"
  data-vel-plugin="FollowMousePlugin"
></div>
```

This element will be accessed as a view within our plugin. The view's name is defined using the `data-vel-view` attribute, which will be `circle`. This view will be assigned to our plugin, which we'll call `FollowMousePlugin`; we'll use the `data-vel-plugin` data attribute for this purpose.

To make the element look like a circle, we need to add this CSS:

```css
.circle {
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  background: whitesmoke;
  border-radius: 50%;
  will-change: transform;
}
```

Now, we come to our plugin definition.

<PluginCode client:load>
  <div slot="FunctionalStyle">
    <FollowMouseFunctional />
  </div>
  <div slot="ClassicalStyle">
    <FollowMouseClassical />
  </div>
</PluginCode>

Though this example may seem simple, it contains important parts we should look at one by one.

In the upcoming sections of this guide, we'll cover:

- How to work with single and multiple views.
- Applying a plugin to a specific view (using scoped plugins).
- Changing view properties like position, size, and rotation.
- Adding animations to view properties.
- Sending data to plugins.
- Understanding global events vs. plugin events.
- Using EventPlugins.
